Okay, guys, this one needs really no
introduction. We've got our brilliant
partner Shawn Maguire, president of
Neuralink DJ. Come on up, guys. Thank
you for coming. Welcome, Neuralink.
>> [applause]
>> We're actually going to stay on the side
cuz we're going to play a 2-minute video
just showing how badass DJ and his team
are.
We're starting off with reducing human
suffering. Our first product is called
Telepathy and that enables someone
[music] who lost the ability to command
their body to be able to communicate
with a computer.
I'm thinking [music]
and a cursor is moving on a screen. It
blew my mind.
It's not a matter of if I can do
something, but like [music] how.
It's been nothing short of miraculous.
Before the implant, I was locked in,
non-verbal, quadriplegic. Now I control
my computer just by thinking and the
rewards have been immense for me. ALS
hit you like a pound of bricks.
I am not able to do things that other
dads can, but now he thinks it's so
[music] cool that I can do things that
other dads cannot.
It's great to control a computer. That's
a huge step.
The convoy team [music] is the team at
Neuralink that's working on assistive
robotic devices controlled by the brain
implant, physical independence in the
real world. I was moving the different
directions, the different axes [music]
with I don't know, it's pretty
incredible just to think about. Really
good feeling seeing what those things
capable of. It was incredible [music]
to be able to just gesture with an arm
again.
Gaining functionality [music]
that I thought was gone forever was so
incredibly life-changing. Like most ALS
patients, Kenneth was losing his ability
to speak.
The real value of the brain-computer
interface is that it would give Kenneth
[music] his voice back.
Hello. There we go.
I'm talking to you with my mind.
Everyone gets his own color. Will be
blue. You're going to do that?
Yes, please.
I'm done with my turn.
Our next product is Blindsight, which
will enable those who have total loss of
vision including they've lost their eyes
or the optic nerve to be able to see
again. The future of this technology
feels almost unlimited. We are going to
continue advancing the quality of the
sensors, the number [music] of the
sensors. Surgery will advance. Robotics
is going to advance. And we are finding
ways to apply it across all regions of
the brain as we find new ways to refine
and enhance its capabilities. It really
feels like the sky's the limit for what
we can do to help.
How does it feel, Audrey?
Life-changing. [music]
Life-changing.
I could not ask for more. [music]
All with my mind.
>> Mhm. All with my mind.
>> [applause]
[applause]
>> We were cracking a lot of jokes before
that video, but I mean, honestly, that
brought tears to my eyes. It's This is
one of the most inspiring projects in
the world. It's incredibly difficult
what they're doing and I mean, they're
like they're truly
saving people. They're they're changing
their lives. They're opening up
possibilities that had been lost to
them. It really is remarkable, DJ. So,
DJ co-founded Neuralink with Elon Musk
and a few other people back in 2016.
It's a different era in so many ways.
Um a lot has happened in AI since then.
Can you just tell us more, DJ?
What made you drop everything in 2016 to
build BCIs? And, you know, how were you
guys thinking about AI back then?
Uh first of all, thanks for having me.
Um it's a pleasure to be here.
Um I I would say AI has really been
central to the origin story of
Neuralink.
Um you know, really the key insight back
then was
um sort of the
the IO bottleneck between the human
output and AI capabilities.
And, you know, even now talking about
sort of bridging that gap seems a little
crazy and wild. Um although I guess like
with every passing week, it seems
more real and real.
Um but certainly back in
2016, 10 years ago, it sounded insane.
Um
and, you know, as far as I guess my
personal involvement in in this um in
this journey,
I guess even as a kid, I was super
fascinated by the brain. I mean, how can
you not? It's the most uh interesting
compute that we all carry. It does
incredible things. It's the only form of
general intelligence that we know to
date.
And um
you know, as an engineer, I always
wanted to just understand, you know,
what makes us us and
uh really try to explore the inner
cosmos, uh so to speak.
And
you know, academically, I got introduced
to brain-computer interface or
brain-machine interface
um you know, in the late 2000s. Uh this
is a couple years after
um first human uh got implanted with the
Utah array, which is this rigid silicon
shank with sort of the through the
uh skin port.
>> [snorts]
>> And um
you know, just doing something
incredible. Uh someone who was
quadriplegic and be able to uh regain
some of that autonomy. And that was that
was very inspirational and you know, at
the time I was um studying at Caltech.
Go Beavers.
>> Go Beavers, yeah. He was more hardcore
though. The undergrads are way smarter
than the grad students.
Um
>> [laughter]
>> I I'd beg to differ, but
>> [gasps]
>> um
and um you know, I I was focused around,
you know, building miniaturized
low-power electronics.
And uh went to Berkeley to um pursue PhD
in in that program. Uh really with the
eye towards can you
sort of build a lot of the principles
from semiconductor to miniaturize these
systems. Um you know, take it out of the
lab setting, which was kind of
where where things were into the real
world. And um
you know, I think when I met Elon and
the team, uh you know, towards the end
of my tail end of my PhD program, I
mean, just the sheer ambitiousness and
the scale of this project was something
that I could not say no to.
So,
to me when I talk
something that's actually surprising me,
a lot of people when I ask them about
Neuralink, a lot of people have never
even heard of the company.
Even really smart people often times
they're not aware of how far along you
guys are. Just I mean, we just saw
video, you have 20-plus
patients where you've changed their
lives. What are some of the things you
think smart people most misunderstand or
underappreciate about the company?
Yeah, I think often times uh for those
that have heard about Neuralink, they do
kind of see these um patient stories on
X and also it's kind of natural to think
about the implanted device that's
recording neural intent and then some
sort of algorithm uh neural decoding to
convert those neural intent to something
useful for the patients. Um so, I think
that part is fairly fairly um well
known.
I think the part that's underappreciated
and I think this is really where Elon
magic kind of sprinkles in is
um you know, at even at the
the founding and day one of the company,
we we had scale in mind. We had not just
the device, but all of the
infrastructure around it to be able to
do the surgery, do the deployment,
build, you know, really, really hard
factories for building these devices.
And, you know, I think that sheer scale
obviously requires a lot of capital and
a lot of boldness. Um but I think
um you know, that formula seems to work
really, really well. Uh it it, you know,
vertical integration is something that
um you know, is really the lifeblood of
uh Neuralink and Elon companies and what
really enables us to have that fast
iteration loop from uh design, develop,
deploy, and then um just being able to
stack literally best talent across the
entire tech stack. Um and I think the
sheer scale of even the robotic surgery
that we had in mind of making it as a
LASIK surgery that can be deployed to
millions and billions of people
eventually, um I think it's something
that people fully do not appreciate and
uh there's a lot of effort that goes
into um building that machine.
Just in case anyone didn't understand
it, these guys build surgical robots and
like
there just even just on the robot side
itself, there's unbelievable
breakthroughs that make this a very
scalable approach and technology, but
this this kind of my experience as well
is just people underappreciate
when you build for scale from the
beginning, it seems like you're going
slow cuz you're building stuff under the
waterline. And then once the iceberg
pops over the waterline, it's just it
just becomes massive so quickly and
I think people are going to be surprised
by once this thing really ramps, how how
quickly it goes. Yeah, and and I mean,
the reality also is that these things
take time. Like the world of atoms are
very unforgiving and um you know, I
think doing these sort of investment,
building out the team, having that
muscle, having that, you know, hard
lessons that you can learn from building
physical things is
uh I I think invaluable.
So, you guys now have over 20 human
patients.
Uh is there a particular patient story
you can tell us about that inspires you
the most or or just is the most
memorable for you?
Yeah, it's it's really hard to pick one.
Um you know, I think all these patients
that and participants that
[clears throat] we have worked with, uh
they they have incredible stories,
obviously, and um you know, there are
very special moments that I do have the
privilege of witnessing, especially when
they
I guess first encounter that digital
barrier
um drop with with the Neuralink and
that's always a very special moment for
uh the participants as as well as the
family.
Um
the thing that I will say though is that
you know, oftentimes I think what
sometimes become under appreciated is
the role of the caregivers and and their
family member usually their family
members.
Um you know, it's people like
Nolan's mother, Mia, uh Brad's wife,
Tiffany, and Ken's
wife uh Cheryl where
um I I think it's a really powerful
human story of love, sacrifice, and
resilience that you know, I think
is is really insp- inspiring to me. And
um you know, if I were to maybe um
take a slight philosophical tangent
um
you know, one of my core beliefs and
life philos- philosophy is that you
know, a lot of our
you know, fulfillment
comes from helping others. And
the reason I believe that's true is you
know, similar to how your present self
is very different than your past and
future selves.
Um sometimes maybe not unlike how
others are different.
And you know, if your goal and
fulfillment comes from striving
to do best for yourself, I you know, I
do think that you can apply the same
principle to say if you strive to help
others, there's a lot of fulfillment
that comes in.
And because I believe that this is
something that
um you know, I I personally and as well
as many others at Neuralink find um
extreme fulfillment being able to help
those that really cannot help
themselves. And I I think it's a it's a
extremely inspiring and motivating
things to kind of stand at the the team
human side and being able to uh ignite
that sort of fire of hope which which is
something that we hear from our
future or current participants and
future patients patients every day.
So, in the video we watched in the
beginning, it talked about this next
product, Blind Sight. What can you tell
you know, what can you tell us about
Blind Sight? You know, what's coming?
Yeah, I guess first of all, Blind Sight
is um
completely different paradigm shift than
our motor prosthesis. Um so, this will
be for patients that are blind uh or
have total total loss of vision from
diseases diseases of their eyes or
um optic nerves
where you would have an external camera
that captures the scene and then be able
to
uh directly write in the back of your
head in the visual cortex which you
know, through electrical stimulation
that changes polarization environment of
the the neurons can create these thing
called phosphenes.
And more electrodes you have, more
pixels you have essentially and be able
to uh regain vision. And
this is something that we're we're very
excited about and
you know, where where it is right now is
that we have currently the next gen
version that we want to go to human with
uh in preclinical testing. So, hopefully
you know, I might eat my word, but
hopefully by the
>> do not need to make any predictions that
you're uncomfortable making.
end of this year.
So, everyone in this room is thinking
about AI. It's a stacked audience.
How do you think things play out at the
interface of BCIs and and AI?
>> [snorts]
>> With the simplest thing being just, you
know, thinking straight to Grok prompts
>> [laughter]
>> coming, you know, I'm sure no one has
this.
Yeah, I'd be careful what you wish for,
I guess. Um
Yeah, I I I
I do think
in some time horizon,
um AI basically becomes a exocortex
similar uh to our neocortex which is
basically a layer above our limbic
system.
And um really that's what kind of drives
a lot of the cognitive abilities that we
we have.
And you know, it's ultimately all about
the bandwidth.
Um it's really all about that interface
and
>> [snorts]
>> you know, I think
if you really think about the ultimate
ceiling of this technology, I I think
it's really
enabling
direct
uncomp- compressed
high fidelity
and multimodal transfer of concepts. The
I learned kung fu in the Matrix. That
that's that's one, but even maybe beyond
that, right? Is you know, your your um
you know, where this this is obviously
still far out in the future. I you know,
our our current system still is
converting neural intents into legacy
systems like keyboard and
mouse control and language.
Um but
you know, I think the real breakthrough
is going to happen when when you can
bypass all of that and be able to uh
you know, sort of compute on the raw
intent itself and
I I
I think it's actually not super
distant in the future. In in many ways,
I think we're seeing this with modern AI
systems where
um you know, these transformer
architectures are doing incredible
things. There's nothing fundamentally
that prevents them from
um say training on
and learning about the actual latent
manifolds of the neural
systems um and
you know, I think
the key component here really is scale.
Um I I think again, we're seeing this
with AI revolution where
things just seem impossible without
scale, but things just become inevitable
with scale. And I think similar things
are going to happen and
you know, we're even at our scale of 20
or so
participants, we're starting to see some
interesting results in building you
know, what's called neural foundational
model where you have these
state-of-the-art LLM models or
transformer networks that are being
fine-tuned with neural data and there's
a lot of really interesting patterns and
things that it's learning that's very
counterintuitive.
Um so, I think
you know, being able to sort of think
about and again, I think this is where
scale is key um and that's where in the
world of atoms
it's it's very unforgiving and there's a
lot of uh work to be done on the on the
ground.
What is something you've learned from
working with Elon? And bonus points if
it's something under appreciated by the
public.
Yeah, I think
um
I certainly also had different
conception of what Elon time is.
Um the insanely aggressive schedule.
Um what I've learned is that it's not
really some
arbitrary management
tactics, but it's really used as a um
rigorous engineering and first principle
tools.
Um
you know, again, this is more applicable
in the world of atoms.
But um we have this concept called all
green light schedule
uh which is you know, kind of forcing us
to think about it if every single light
is green
you know, there's no administrative
burdens or delays or no shipping
delays or risk or you know, no legacy
bottlenecks, how fast can you build it?
Um
and when you think from that
point of view and advantage point and
literally strip the strip away any
man-made
um bottlenecks
and you ask a question of how fast can
you actually manufacture a chip? How
fast can you design a robot and test it?
Um it
it turns out like I don't know I don't
know what the right number is, but at
least 80-90% of it is things that you
think are
the way it is just cuz you don't really
think about it from that perspective.
So,
I think having that ability to um
you know, frame everything from what is
physically possible first principle
baseline for building something like
that.
Um I I think it's a really really useful
just framework for thinking.
Um I I I should warn people that this is
not for everyone and it it obviously
comes at a cost um in terms of
uh
you know, shifting priorities and uh
insane stress sometimes and um
you know,
cultural ramification of having this
sort of system, but
um
when it works
uh boy, it's um
it's something that is very empowering
and and I think um
it's it's also uh
yeah, just like the best thing ever to
just see it unfold.
When it works, you get reusable rockets
and electric vehicles. I'm ask one more
question and then open it up to the
audience. Uh and this is a a layup. You
know, part of how convinced DJ to come
cuz this guy is very hard was, you know,
that maybe we can help him with
recruiting. Um
like there's all these AI foundation
model representatives here where
everyone's competing against each other.
It's hard to do recruiting. This is
something different. They you know,
they're you know, an on an island that
scaling brain computer interfaces. If
any
The question for DJ is
are there any particular roles that
would be very helpful to fill? And for
any of you, if you have, you know,
brilliant neuroscience friends or you
know, people doing BCIs that
Stanford or Berkeley or anywhere
send them like send them to me and I'll
send them I'll screen them and then send
them to DJ, but any roles that are
particularly burning?
Yeah, um
there's a saying I'll I'll answer that
question, but I'll start by saying that
there's a saying at Neuralink that you
don't have to be a brain surgeon to work
at Neuralink. Uh we really don't require
any background in neuroscience.
Um you know,
most people and especially like some of
the best people at the company are just
hardcore engineers.
So
I'll state that you know, we're we're
just in general looking for just
hardcore engineers and you know, you you
can learn the neuroscience and I mean
we'll we'll learn as we go.
And there's again like a lot of our
problems that we're solving are real
hardcore
engineering challenges in the
manufacturing and the robotics and
things like that.
I would say
Um
in their software and firmware right now
is is a critical role for us to fill
and as I mentioned I think we're
starting to enter into an era where the
scale of the data that we're getting the
quality of the data that we're getting
is extremely interesting to train some
of the most state of the art models. And
there's also some inherent challenges
associated with how do you even label
this data set? Like how do you actually
know what the human true intent is
unless
how do you how do you design it in a way
such that
you know, you can you can sort of clean
up the data which is obviously a big
part of
AI. So
So any really smart person that doesn't
want to work at a frontier lab.
We have 4 minutes for questions.
Eunice is bringing you box.
>> [snorts]
>> Question on how you choose when to like
when to go deep on a product versus
expanding to others like
what you built with telepathy seems like
already transformational product and yet
you're already kind of on to the next
thing. Like how do you decide what when
to expand into another area and what are
the biggest blockers right now to taking
even what you've already built and
making that more widely available?
Yeah, that's a great question. You know,
our our whole strategy is beast head and
then expand
and then we try to make everything
generalizable enough so that you don't
just build
a very specialized system for motor
cortex and you know, visual cortex,
auditory cortex etc.
I mean for us there is a pretty huge
bottleneck that is difficult to overcome
which is biology
and
things that are somewhat easier to
overcome but still difficult is
regulatory and payment and that market
dynamics.
So a lot of our
strategy sort of hinges on what is the
optimal time at which we should put some
amount of resources so we can pipeline
the crap out of things so that once one
of them is approved which is going to be
the first and the hardest one to get
approval to build that clinical evidence
of safety, you can then point to it, go
through a much faster process that's PMA
supplements, 510k and things like that.
But in order to do that you you want to
build up some amount of preclinical and
clinical data. So that's kind of how we
think about the timing of launching
different products.
Dan
So the video was incredibly moving and I
guess a lot of what you talked about
maybe these [clears throat] are not
exactly right words but are like their
piece for patients that are have
diseases and and that's incredible and
then Shawn mentioned something about I
know kung kung fu. I'm wondering like is
there a near or I'm curious what the
near and maybe even longer term
view of like more things that are
optional and for augmentation as opposed
to like fixing problems.
Yeah, I think yeah, so
certainly our focus right now is
restoration of lost function and this is
obviously a very serious medical device
and serious surgery that you would have
to go through. The way the way I think
about all of this is that at the end of
the day it's all about benefit risk.
And that's how everything's framed as.
Obviously for people that are
quadriplegic their
risk appetite for potential benefit is
much much higher.
I do think that
it's still
not entirely clear what that transition
to
non-medical use case would be. Um
you know, at what point do you cross the
benefit risk for someone who's otherwise
healthy?
Um
Again, I think this is we have some
ideas as to what what that benefit side
would be and then obviously figuring out
a way to reduce the risk as well.
But one thing I will say is that there's
a wonderful thing called off-label use
once everything is approved where if you
can find a neurosurgeon, if you can find
a way to pay for it yourself, you could
get it for someone who's otherwise
healthy. So I do think that once we
get to sort of market there there may be
some handful of people that might walk
around with a neuralink.
We have 30 seconds to rapid fire
question then rapid fire answer and
we're done.
Do you think the hard problem of
consciousness is a hard problem and if
you do is there a pathway to solving it?
Yeah, hard problem of consciousness is
extremely hard problem.
I do think that
if you are able to inject new senses,
there may be ways to
quantitatively understand that.
That was very fast. DJ one of the most
inspiring companies in the world. Thank
you for being here. Really appreciate
it.
>> [applause]